<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="LyX 2.1.4" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8" />
<title>LyX Document</title>
<style type='text/css'>
/* Layout-provided Styles */
del.strikeout {
  text-decoration: line-through;
}
div.standard {
margin-bottom: 2ex;
}
h3.subsection_ {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: large;
margin-top: 0.9ex;
margin-bottom: 0.5ex;
text-align: left;

}
ol.lyxlist {
list-style-type: none;
}
li.labeling_item {
text-indent: -5em;
margin-left: 5em;
}
span.lyxlist {
margin-right: 1em;
}
ul.itemize {
margin-top: 0.7ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
margin-left: 3ex;
text-align: left;

}
h4.subsubsection_ {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: medium;
margin-top: 0.7ex;
margin-bottom: 0.4ex;
text-align: left;

}


</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="standard" style='text-align: center;'><a id='magicparlabel-1' /><span style='font-size:xx-large;'>Tuomas Airaksinen
<br />

</span></div>

<div class="standard" style='text-align: center;'><a id='magicparlabel-2' /><em><span style='font-size:x-large;'>Curriculum Vitae
<br />


<br />


<br />


<br />

</span></em></div>


<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-8' /><u>Personal and contact details</u></h3>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-9' /><b>Name:</b> Tuomas Antero Airaksinen
<br />

<b>Date of birth:</b> March 1982
<br />

<b>Nationality:</b> Finnish
<b><br />

Current position: </b>Tech lead / senior software developer
<br />


<br />

<b>E-mail:</b> forename.surname at gmail.com
<br />

<b>Homepage: </b><a href="http://tuomasairaksinen.fi/">http://tuomasairaksinen.fi/</a>
<br />

<b>Github:</b> <a href="https://github.com/tuomas2/">https://github.com/tuomas2/</a>
<br />

<b>LinkedIn:</b> <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/tuomasairaksinen/">https://www.linkedin.com/in/tuomasairaksinen/</a></div>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-10' /><u>Education</u></h3>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-11' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>27.10.2010</span>
<b> Doctor of Philosophy</b>, Computer Science, University of Jyväskylä. Dissertation thesis <em><a href="http://urn.fi/URN:ISBN:978-951-39-4037-9">"Numerical methods for acoustics and noise control"</a></em>. </li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>28.4.2006</span>
<b> Master of Philosophy</b>, Physics, University of Jyväskylä. Pro gradu thesis<b> </b><em><a href="http://urn.fi/URN:NBN:fi:jyu-2006214">"Numeric fluid flow computing with lattice-Boltzmann method"</a>,</em> with grade <em>eximia cum laude approbatur. </em>Major subject: Physics, grade <em>excellent</em>. Minor subjects: Computer science, grade <em>excellent</em>, Mathematics, grade <em>good</em></li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>6.1.2002</span>
<b> Finnish army</b>, Signalist, 6 months (KarPr/2.VK/2001/2) </li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2.5.2001</span>
<b> Matriculation examination</b> with following qualifications:<b> </b>Mathematics, grade <em>eximia cum laude approbatur</em>, Physics, grade <em>laudatur</em>, Finnish (mother language), grade <em>laudatur</em>, English, grade <em>magna cum laude approbatur</em>, Swedish, grade<b> </b><em>magna cum laude approbatur.</em></li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>30.5.1998</span>
<b> Comprehensive school</b></li>
</ol>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-729' /><u>Language skills</u></h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-730' /><li class="itemize_item">Finnish: Native</li>
<li class="itemize_item">English: fluent spoken and written</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Swedish: fair official skills.</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-27' /><u>Work history</u></h3>
<h4 class="subsubsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-294' />Full time contracts</h4>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-295' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>1.4.2017&nbsp;--</span>
<b> </b>Tech lead / Senior software developer, Qvantel Finland Oy. Tech lead and senior software developer position in a product development team. Designing and developing order fulfillment backend systems. Technologies: Python 3.6, Flask, AsyncIO, Docker.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>1.4.2014&nbsp;--&nbsp;31.3.2017</span>
<b> </b>Senior software developer, Qvantel Finland Oy. Python/Django web software development in a large customer project, in telecommunication domain. Agile software development with Scrum and Kanban.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>28.10.2010&nbsp;--&nbsp;31.3.2014</span>
<b> </b>Postdoctoral researcher at the Department of Mathematical Information Technology, University of Jyväskylä</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>1.5.2006&nbsp;--&nbsp;27.10.2010</span>
 Doctoral student, research for Ph. D. thesis and post-graduate studies at the Department of Mathematical Information Technology, University of Jyväskylä</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>16.5.2005&nbsp;--&nbsp;30.4.2006</span>
 Research assistant, Research for pro gradu thesis at the Department of Physics, University of Jyväskylä, </li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>1.7.2003&nbsp;--&nbsp;31.8.2003</span>
 Programming for Hurvana 4 computer game at Veikko Heinonen Ltd. (summer job).</li>
</ol>
<h4 class="subsubsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-283' />Research</h4>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-29' />See <a href="http://tuomasairaksinen.fi/listofpublications.pdf">list of publications</a>.</div>
<h4 class="subsubsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-30' />Teaching</h4>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-31' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>11.3.2013&nbsp;--&nbsp;15.5.2013</span>
 &nbsp;
<br />

Lectures (4 h) and assignments (16 h), computer graphics course, advanced level course at the Department of Mathematical Information Technology, University of Jyväskylä</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>12.3.2012&nbsp;--&nbsp;28.5.2012</span>
 &nbsp;
<br />

Assignments (8 h), computer graphics course, advanced level course at the Department of Mathematical Information Technology, University of Jyväskylä</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>18.1.2005&nbsp;--&nbsp;28.4.2005</span>
 &nbsp;
<br />

Lectures (10 h) and assignments (24 h), computer graphics course, advanced level course at the Department of Mathematical Information Technology, University of Jyväskylä</li>
<li class="labeling_item">
</li>
</ol>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-50' /><u>Software development skills</u></h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-51' /><li class="itemize_item"><b>Programming</b> 

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-52' /><li class="itemize_item">Excellent, professional Python 3.6 programming </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Experience in C++ and C programming </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Software design from start to finish</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Excellent team player and nice workmate. </li>
</ul>
</li><li class="itemize_item"><b>Web software development: </b>Professional experience with Python, Django framework, Flask, AsyncIO etc.</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><b>Scientific computing skills:</b> Physics simulations with Finite Element method (FEM), Optimization methods (single-objective, multi-objective), 3D graphics, visualization techniques. Comprehensive skills in various scientific computing Python libraries, such Numpy, Scipy etc.</li>
</ul>

</body>
</html>
